# The Abernathy Identity


The air was thick with the smell of musty old books and the faint hint of
incense as Professor Abernathy pored over the ancient tomes scattered across
his desk. He had been searching for the ultimate magical formula for years, a
formula that would grant him unimaginable power.

And at long last, he had found it.

It was an ancient text, written in a language that had long been forgotten by
the modern world. Abernathy had spent months translating the ancient script,
and he was convinced that he had finally stumbled upon the key to unlocking the
secrets of the universe.

The formula was simple, yet elegant. It was a series of mathematical equations
that, when properly applied, would imbue the user with god-like powers.

But Abernathy was not content to simply wield these powers for himself. No, he
had grander plans in mind. He would use the formula to transform his students
into loyal servants, mindless zombies that would do his bidding without
question.

And so, with great trepidation, Abernathy began to test the formula. He
selected a small group of students and, with a sly smile on his face, began to
recite the ancient incantation.

At first, nothing seemed to happen. The students looked on with confused
expressions, unsure of what was happening. But then, slowly but surely, their
eyes began to glaze over and their bodies began to stiffen.

Within minutes, the students had been transformed into mindless drones, ready
to do Abernathy's bidding. The professor cackled with glee as he commanded his
new army of undead servants, delighting in the limitless power he now
possessed.

But Abernathy's reign of terror did not last long. His hubris proved to be his
undoing, as he became careless with his newfound power. Soon, word of his evil
deeds had spread, and a group of brave adventurers set out to stop him.

In the end, Abernathy's ambition was his downfall. The group was able to defeat
him and destroy the cursed formula, freeing the students from their undead
prison.

And so, the evil magician's reign of terror came to an end, his name forever
etched into the annals of history as a cautionary tale of the dangers of
unchecked ambition.
