


Integral spinors, Apollonian disk packings, and Descartes groups

Authors: Jerzy Kocik

Abstract: We show that every irreducible integral Apollonian packing can be set in the Euclidean space so that all of its tangency spinors and all reduced coordinates and co-curvatures are integral. As a byproduct, we prove that in any integral Descartes configuration, the sum of the curvatures of two adjacent disks can be written as a sum of two squares. Descartes groups are defined, and an interesting occurrence of the Fibonacci sequence is found.

https://arxiv.org/pdf/2105.12950


Clifford Algebras and Euclid's Parameterization of Pythagorean Triples

Jerzy Kocik

We show that the space of Euclid's parameters for Pythagorean triples is endowed with a natural symplectic structure and that it emerges as a spinor space of the Clifford algebra \mathbb{R}_{2,1}, whose minimal version may be conceptualized as a 4-dimensional real algebra of "kwaternions." We observe that this makes Euclid's parameterization the earliest appearance of the concept of spinors. We present an analogue of the "magic correspondence" for the spinor representation of Minkowski space and show how the Hall matrices fit into the scheme. The latter obtain an interesting and perhaps unexpected geometric meaning as certain symmetries of an Apollonian gasket. An extension to more variables is proposed and explicit formulae for generating all Pythagorean quadruples, hexads, and decuples are provided.

https://arxiv.org/pdf/1201.4418


Fibonacci numbers and Ford circles

Authors: Jerzy Kocik

Abstract: An amusing connection between Ford circles, Fibonacci numbers, and golden ratio is shown. Namely, certain tangency points of Ford circles are concyclic and involve Fibonacci numbers. They form four circles that cut the x-axis at points related to the golden ratio.



3D Farey graph, lambda lengths and SL_2-tilings
Anna Felikson, Oleg Karpenkov, Khrystyna Serhiyenko, Pavel Tumarkin
We explore a three-dimensional counterpart of the Farey tessellation and its relations to Penner's lambda lengths and SL_2-tilings. In particular, we prove a three-dimensional version of Ptolemy relation, and generalise results of Ian Short to classify tame SL_2-tilings over Eisenstein integers in terms of pairs of paths in the 3D Farey graph.

https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.17118


# Split Quaternions

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Split-quaternion

Definition a Clifford algebra is an algebra generated by a vector space with a quadratic form, and is a unital associative algebra with the additional structure of a distinguished subspace.


- quaternions O(3)
- split quaternions O(2,1)

In abstract algebra, the split-quaternions or coquaternions form an algebraic structure introduced by James Cockle in 1849 under the latter name. They form an associative algebra of dimension four over the real numbers.

Like the quaternions introduced by Hamilton in 1843, they form a four dimensional real associative algebra. But like the real algebra of 2×2 matrices – and unlike the real algebra of quaternions – the split-quaternions contain nontrivial zero divisors, nilpotent elements, and idempotents. 
- $\frac12 (1 + j)$ is an idempotent zero-divisor,
- i − j is nilpotent.
As an algebra over the real numbers, the algebra of split-quaternions is isomorphic to the algebra of 2×2 real matrices by the above defined isomorphism.

The quaternions are also 4 dimensional but embed into
$M_8(\mathbb{R})$ as a subalgebra, while the split quaternions is isomorphic to  $M_4(\mathbb{R})$.

Pythagorean triples can be represented as split quaternions, and the
via the map:

$$(x,y,z) \mapsto \frac12 \begin{pmatrix} -y & x + z \\ x -z & y \end{pmatrix}$$

- the norm of the split quaternions is 4 times the determinant of the matrix, which is $- x^2 - y^2 + z^2$.
-  this is induced by the (Killing) form which is -2 times  the trace of the matrix product

So we have

$$\| A\| = 4\det A,\, \langle A, B \rangle = -2 \text{Tr}(AB)$$

## Hall matrices

The Hall matrices are defined as follows:
$$\begin{pmatrix} 2, 2, 1 \\ 2, 1, 2 \\ 2,2,3 \end{pmatrix},
\quad \begin{pmatrix} 2, 2, 1 \\ 2, -1, 2 \\ 2,-2,3 \end{pmatrix},
\quad \begin {pmatrix}-1, 2, 2\\ -2, 1, 2\\ -2, 2, 3 \end{pmatrix}$$


A. Hall, Genealogy of Pythagorean triads, Mathematical Gazette, LIV, No. 390 (1970), 377–379.


### Theorem 5.3 Kocik 
The spin representation of the Hall matrices is

$$\begin{pmatrix} 2 & 1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{pmatrix}, 
\quad \begin{pmatrix} 2 & -1 \\ 1 & 0 \end{pmatrix}, 
\quad \begin{pmatrix} 1 & 2 \\ 0 & 1 \end{pmatrix}$$


---

- The space of Euclid’s parameters for Pythagorean triples is
endowed with a natural symplectic structure and should be viewed as a spinor space for the Clifford algebra $\mathbb{R}_{2,1}$, built over 3-dimensional Minkowski space,
whose integer light-like vectors represent the Pythagorean triples 
- The minimal algebra for $\mathbb{R}_{2,1}$,
is four-dimensional and may be conceptualized as
“pseudo-quaternions” K and represented by 2 × 2 matrices.
- In this context the Pythagorean triples may be represented as traceless matrices, and Euclid’s parameterization map as a tensor product of spinors. 
- This set-up allows us to build the spinor version of the Hall matrices. The Hall matrices acquire a geometric interpretation in a rather exotic context of the geometry of the **Apollonian window**.

