[source](https://amp.theguardian.com/theobserver/commentisfree/2022/mar/06/letters-the-roots-of-vladimir-putins-invasion-ambitions)

Andrew Rawnsley is right to note that Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine
signals a global contest for the soul of our planet (“Liberal democracies must
defend their values and show Putin that the west isn’t weak”, Comment).
[source](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2022/feb/27/liberal-democracies-must-defend-their-values-and-show-putin-that-the-west-isnt-weak)

The current situation can be traced back to western triumphalism after the
collapse of the Soviet Union, which may well have fed Putin’s drive to address
perceived humiliation. The hubris of the west in turn fed strategic inertia and
a failure to follow words with action, as in 
- Barack Obama’s refusal to act when Bashar al-Assad crossed his red lines in Syria, 
- when Joe Biden abjectly abandoned Afghanistan,

and the UK prostituted itself by accepting foreign investment without any
checks on where it came from, turning London into the world’s money-laundering
capital. The wealth of a small global elite now holds sway over the planet, as
noted by Nick Cohen.

This in no way justifies Putin’s warmongering. However, I fear things will
continue to get worse until and unless a new political leadership emerges that
is willing and able to rebuild our economies on a more equitable and
environmentally sustainable basis and make the options both electorally
attractive and administratively feasible. 

Geoffrey Payne London W5

Would that our leaders might implement the punitive sanctions against Putin
that Simon Tisdall suggests (“Timidity, greed and sloth: why the west always
loses to Putin”, Focus). There are other actions that could be taken through
the UN that might ease an earlier, still unresolved, refugee crisis for Europe
for which Russia bears much responsibility.

Putin’s preoccupation with Ukraine and the near-worldwide abhorrence of his
actions provide the opportunity to make a major effort to reconvene Syrian
peace talks without the previous stumbling block of Putin’s insistence that
al-Assad remains in office. A peace agreement should be followed by
UN-supervised elections and both Assad and Putin facing charges at the
International Criminal Court. Professor Keith Barnham Frome, Somerset

The war in Ukraine is devastating and terrifying and Boris Johnson should not
be allowed to use it for his career purposes (“From partygate to Putin’s war:
PM rides on a rare wave of unity”, News). He may think of himself as a second
Churchill, but it is up to the media to prevent this mistaken image from taking
hold. It should be possible to find the newspaper contributions Johnson
published in 2014, when Russia occupied Crimea.

Was he writing about how to preserve peace and protect democracy in Europe? Or
was he already plotting to destabilise the European Union? And ever since 2014,
he has spent a lot of his (and everybody else’s) energy on creating disunity in
the west, instead of the unity he is now suddenly praising. Johnson is no
Churchill. He is still the lying opportunist he always has been. 

Aileen Rambow
London N10

