# Dream of the Ramshackle Woman

I had the strangest dream last night. I had bought a ramshackle
house from my friend, and I was trying to fix it up but failing
miserably. The house was falling apart, and I was standing in the
middle of a mess, feeling overwhelmed. The living room was filled
with junk and the furniture was old and broken. 

A woman knocked on the door,. well dressed but hidng her face.
She asked if she could come in, and I said yes. She managed to keep
her face hidden as she walked through the house. It seemed like her
back was always turned to me. She asked me if I remembered her. I
said no, but she insisted that I did. I felt a sense of dread and
searched my memory, but I couldn't recall her immediately.

She stopped in the living room and facing a wall with her back to
me, and took off her coat. She was wearing a beautiful dress, or at
least it had been beautiful once. It was torn now and stained with
blood. Her back was covered in scars, and lumps, cancerous growths
that bulged under her skin and seemed to move. I felt sick and knew
that if she turned around, I would see her face, scarred from the
treatment that had failed to save her life. My heart was pounding,
and I wanted to run, but I couldn't move. I was frozen in place, as
she turned around to face me. Now I remembered her and felt guilty
for not having been able to save her. 

Suddenly a young man burst into the house demanding that I give him
food and milk. He was thin and dirty, and his eyes were wild. I went
out in the street where his parents were waiting for him. They were
my next door neighbors, and the apologized for their son's behavior.
They said that he had been sick and that they had been unable to
control him. I felt sorry for them and offered to help. We managed
to calm thei son down, and I gave him some food and milk from the
filthy kitchen. He left but seemingly not through the door but
through the wall. He just barged through it as if it wasn't there
leaving a gaping hole in the wall.

The hole in the wall bothered me, and I went to inspect it. I looked
out through it and saw the street outside and the neighbors peering
in at me. I felt exposed and vulnerable and tried to cover the hole.
Looking around in the mess there was nothing to cover it with. Under
the stairs there were some old kids toys, and what looked like
furniture from a child's room. I picked up a toys and examined them
but they weren't going to be of any use. Hopelssly I looked around
but ended up back at the hole scraping at the wall with my fingers
trying to make it smaller. 

I woke up disappointed that I hadn't spent more time with the
mysterious woman. I felt that she had something important to tell
me.


